---
layout: post
title: "Metal Study #2"
date: 2019-04-30 12:00:00 +0900
tag: [Metal]
---


# Resource Objects: Buffers and Textures


- Metal resource objects (MTLResource) for storing unformatted memory and formatted image data. There are two types of MTLResource objects:
    - `MTLBuffer` represents an allocation of unformatted memory that can contain any type of data. Buffers are often used for vertex, shader, and compute state data.
    - `MTLTexture` represents an allocation of formatted image data with a specified texture type and pixel format. Texture objects are used as source textures for vertex, fragment, or compute functions, as well as to store graphics rendering output (that is, as an attachment).


## Buffers Are Typeless Allocations of Memory

- A MTLBuffer object represents an allocation of memory that can contain any type of data.

### Creating a Buffer Object

- The following MTLDevice methods create and return a MTLBuffer object:

### Textures Are Formatted Image Data

- A MTLTexture object represents an allocation of formatted image data that can be used as a resource for a vertex shader, fragment shader, or compute function, or as an attachment to be used as a rendering destination.
- A MTLTexture object can have one of the following structures:
    - A 1D, 2D, or 3D image
    - An array of 1D or 2D images
    - A cube of six 2D images

#### Creating a Texture Object with a Texture Descriptor

- MTLTextureDescriptor defines the properties that are used to create a MTLTexture object, including its image size (width, height, and depth), pixel format, arrangement (array or cube type) and number of mipmaps.
- The MTLTextureDescriptor properties are only used during the creation of a MTLTexture object. After you create a MTLTexture object, property changes in its MTLTextureDescriptor object no longer have any effect on that texture.
- To create one or more textures from a descriptor:
    1. Create a custom MTLTextureDescriptor object that contains texture properties that describe the texture data:
    2. Create a texture from the MTLTextureDescriptor object by calling the newTextureWithDescriptor: method of a MTLDevice object. After texture creation, call the replaceRegion:mipmapLevel:slice:withBytes:bytesPerRow:bytesPerImage: method to load the texture image data.
    3. To create more MTLTexture objects, you can reuse the same MTLTextureDescriptor object, modifying the descriptor’s property values as needed.

#### Working with Texture Slices

- A slice is a single 1D, 2D, or 3D texture image and all its associated mipmaps. For each slice:
- All texture objects have at least one slice; cube and array texture types may have several slices.


#### Pixel Formats for Textures

- MTLPixelFormat specifies the organization of color, depth, and stencil data storage in individual pixels of a MTLTexture object. There are three varieties of pixel formats: ordinary, packed, and compressed.
- For example, MTLPixelFormatRGBA8Unorm is a 32-bit format with eight bits for each color component; the lowest addresses contains red,


### Creating a Sampler States Object for Texture Lookup

- A `MTLSamplerState` object defines the addressing, filtering, and other properties that are used when a graphics or compute function performs texture sampling operations on a `MTLTexture` object.

```swift
let desc = MTLSamplerDescriptor()
desc.minFilter = MTLSamplerMinMagFilter.linear
desc.magFilter = MTLSamplerMinMagFilter.linear
desc.sAddressMode = MTLSamplerAddressMode.repeat
desc.tAddressMode = MTLSamplerAddressMode.repeat
// all properties below have default values
desc.mipFilter = MTLSamplerMipFilter.notMipmapped
desc.maxAnisotropy = 1
desc.normalizedCoordinates = true
desc.lodMinClamp = 0.0
desc.lodMaxClamp = Float.greatestFiniteMagnitude
// create MTLSamplerState
let sampler = device.makeSamplerState(descriptor: desc)
```