---
layout: post
title:  "Terms"
date:   2017-11-30 16:00:00 +0900
categories: terms
permalink: /terms/
---

# False Positive vs False Negative

틀린 것을 맞다고
> **A false positive error**, or in short a false positive, commonly called a "false alarm", is a result that indicates a given condition exists, when it does not. For example, in the case of "The Boy Who Cried Wolf", the condition tested for was "is there a wolf near the herd?"; the shepherd at first wrongly indicated there was one, by calling "Wolf, wolf!"
A false positive error is a type I error where the test is checking a single condition, and wrongly gives an affirmative (positive) decision.

맞은 것을 틀리다고
> *A false negative error*, or in short a false negative, is a test result that indicates that a condition does not hold, while in fact it does. I.e., erroneously no effect has been inferred. An example is a truly guilty prisoner who is acquitted of a crime. The condition "the prisoner is guilty" holds (the prisoner is guilty). But the test (a trial in a court of law) failed to realize this, and wrongly decided the prisoner was not guilty, falsely concluding a negative about the condition.
A false negative error is a type II error occurring in a test where a single condition is checked for and the result of the test is erroneously that the condition is absent.[1]


# Canonical and Non-Canonical
> In programming, canonical means "according to the rules." And non-canonical means "not according to the rules." In the early Christian church, the "canon" was the officially chosen text. In The New Hacker's Dictionary , Eric Raymond tells us that the word meant "reed" in its Greek and Latin origin, and a certain length of reed came to be used as a standard measure. In some knowledge areas, such as music and literature, the "canon" is the body of work that everyone studies.
The terms are sometimes used to distinguish whether a programming interface follows a particular standard or precedent or whether it departs from it.
