---
layout: post
title:  "MIT 6.00CS"
date:   2017-11-07 23:00:00 +0900
tags: [MIT OCW]
---

I just started to learn MIT OCW course 6.00SC [Introduction to Computer Science and Programming](https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-00sc-introduction-to-computer-science-and-programming-spring-2011/).

---

# MIT 6.00CS Lecture 1: INTRODUCTION TO 6.00

- [First lecture](https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-00sc-introduction-to-computer-science-and-programming-spring-2011/unit-1/lecture-1-introduction-to-6.00/) Introduction to 6.00

### What to remember

- What is the difference between declarative and imperative knowledge?
    - Declarative knowledge is statements of fact
    - Imperative knowledge is "how to" knowledge

- What is the advantage of a stored-program computer?
    - It's far more versatile than a fixed-program computer, since it interprets a program given to it and carries out those instructions, as opposed to being built to do one thing.

- What are the syntax, static semantics, and semantics of a language?
    - Syntax determines whether a string is legal, static semantics determine whether the string has meaning, and semantics assigns a meaning to a legal sentence (assuming no static semantic errors).

- What sorts of errors can occur in a program?
    - It can crash, run forever, or give a wrong answer.

---

# MIT 6.00CS Lecture 2: Core Elements of a Program

# Topics covered
 - Topics covered: IDLE, types of objects, operators, overloading, commands, variables, assignment, input, straight line and branching programs, looping constructs, Turing completeness, conditionals, nesting.
# IDLE

### What is IDLE?
- Python's Integrated Development and Learning Environment

### IDLE has the following features:

- coded in 100% pure Python, using the [tkinter](https://docs.python.org/3/library/tkinter.html#module-tkinter) GUI toolkit
- cross-platform: works mostly the same on Windows, Unix, and Mac OS X
- Python shell window (interactive interpreter) with colorizing of code input, output, and error messages
- multi-window text editor with multiple undo, Python colorizing, smart indent, call tips, auto completion, and other features
- search within any window, replace within editor windows, and search through multiple files (grep)
- debugger with persistent breakpoints, stepping, and viewing of global and local namespaces
- configuration, browsers, and other dialogs

[more info](https://docs.python.org/3/library/idle.html)


# What is Type?

- Types are classifications of objects, which is what Python, as an OOP language, deals with. They determine how those objects are dealt with (for example, adding two integers results in an integer, two strings results in a concatenated string, and an integer and a string results in an error).


# What is Expression?

- An expression is composed of objects (or operands) and operators, and can be interpreted into a value.

# What is conversion?

- A type conversion turns one type of object into another. For example, applying str to the integer 3 results in the string '3'.

# What is a keyword?

- Keywords are words that have **special meanings** within a language. Many editors will display them in special colors. These words cannot be used as variables.

# What is the difference between a straight line program and a branching program?

- A **straight line program** simply goes through and carries out each step. A **branching program** will do different things depending on conditions set within the program.

# What is a conditional?

- A conditional statement starts with an if statement, and can also include elif and else statements.

# What is Variable

- Variable is a way to name an object

# What is an Assignment?

- Assignment binds a name to an object

# Purpose of comment

- Purpose of comment is to make the program easier to read

# Overloaded
- operators have a meaning that depends upon type of operands
- `operand operator operand`

# In Python
```
'a' + 'b'
'ab' # concatenation
```

# Errors

- Compiler structure
    1. Lexical analyzer
    2. Syntax analyzer
    3. Semantic analyzer
- each step can detect errors

- Syntax error
    - Syntax error is an error in a program. Programs must follow syntax of a program language to compile correctly.
    - deleted at compile time
    - Syntactically incorrect program will produce syntax error.
    - example: `20 ) 20` will produce Syntax error : invalid syntax
- Semantic error
    - Semantic error is a violation of the rules of meaning of a programming language.
    - example `20 + 'a'` Syntactically correct, but semantic error.
    - static semantic errors are detected at compile time.
    - dynamic semantic errors are detected at run time.


# TODO

- [x] [Problem Sets](https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-00sc-introduction-to-computer-science-and-programming-spring-2011/unit-1/lecture-2-core-elements-of-a-program/MIT6_00SCS11_ps0.pdf)

---

# MIT 6.00CS Lecture 4: Machine Interpretation of a Program


# Topics covered
  - Debug,

## Sentences
  - The hard part is actually getting program to work. The thing need to learn is how to debug code.
  - The most common problem that people have in debugging programs is that they are lazy.
  - Don't be lazy in debugging.

...
