---
layout: post
title:  "C study"
date:   2017-12-05 20:00:00 +0900
categories: c
permalink: /c/
---

### preprocessing directive of the form
```
#define identifier replacement_string
```

### Flow of control
```
if-else
switch
while
break
continue
goto
return

{ ... } // compound statement
```

### Structured programming

- structured programming is a problem-solving strategy and a programming methodology
that includes the following two guidelines
- The flow of control in a program should be as simple as possible
- The construction of a program should embody top-down design

### **Top-down design(stepwise refinement)** consists of repeatedly decomposing a problem into smaller problems.

### Function

```
// prototype
type function_name ( parameter type list );

type function_name ( parameter type list )
{
  declarations
  statements
}
```
- When a function is called, programm control is passed to the function. When a return statement is executed, or the end of the function is reched, control is passed back to the calling environment.

### Recursion

- Recursion is the ability of a function to call itself, either directly or indirectly.

### Data type

- `char` `int` `double` `float`...
- The fundamental data types are `char, short, int, long,` unsigned versions of these, and three floating types. The type char is a 1-byte integral type mostly used for representing characters.
- Three floating types - `float`, `double`, and `long double` - are provided to represent real numbers. Typically, a float is stored in four bytes and a double in eight. Unlike integer arithmetic, floating arithmetic is not always exact. The type double, not float, is the "working" type.
- ASCII value

### char

```
putchar('\n');
getchar();

while (( c = getchar()) != EOF)

#include <ctype.h>

isalpha(c);
isupper(c);
islower(c);
isdigit(c);
isalnum(c);
isxdigit(c);
isspace(c);
ispunct(c);
ispring(c);
isgraph(c);
iscntrl(c);
isascii(c); // is ASCII

toupper(c);
tolower(c);
toascii(c);

```

### Program Correctness: The assert() Macro

```
assert(10 > 9);

// precondition
// postcondition
// if assertion fails, the system prints out a message and abort the program.
```
### The sizeof Operator

- C provides the unary operator sizeof to find the number of bytes needed to store an object.
- `sizeof(object)` returns an integer that represents the number of bytes needed to store the object in memory.

### Type cast

- Automatic conversions occur in mixed expressions and across an equal sign.
- Casts can be used to force explicit conversions.

### Enumeration types

- Enumeration types are user-defined types that allow the programmer to name a finite set together with its elements.

```
enum day { sun, mon, tue, wed, thu, fri, sat };

enum day d1, d2;

d1 = fri;

if (d1 == d2) { }

enum suit { clubs = 1, diamonds, heart, spades} a, b, c; // variables of the type: a, b, c

```


### The Use of typedef

```
typedef int color;

color red, blue, green;

enum day { sun, mon, tue, wed, thu, fri, sat };

typedef enum day day;

day find_next_day(day d) {
  return ((day) (((int)d + 1) % 7));
}

enum no_yes {no, yes};

enum no_yes answer;
```


### Pointer

- A pointer variable usually takes as values either NULL or addresses of other variables
- The address operator `&` and the indirection, or dereferencing, operator `*` are unary operators with the same precedence and right-to-left associativity as the other unary operators. If v is a variable, then the expression
  - `*&v` is equivalent to `v`
  - if v has a storage class register, then the operation  &v is not allowed
- the symbolic constant NULL is defined as zero in stdio.h

```
int * p; // "p is a pointer to int variable."
p = &a;
int *p;
double *q;
void *v; // void* as a generic pointer type.
```

### Call-by-Reference

- In C, the call-by-value mechanism is strictly adhered to. This means that when an expression occurs as an argument to a function, a copy of the value of the expression is made, and it is this copy that is passed to the function. Thus a function call such as f(v) by itself cannot change the stored value fo v in the calling environment.
- The effect of call-by-reference can be achieved by using pointers, the address operator `&`, and the dereferencing operator `*`.
- To achieve the effect of call-by-reference, the programmer must use a pointer as a formal parameter in the header of the function definition. Then the assignment of a value to the dereferenced pointer in the body of the function can change the value of a variable in the calling environment. When such a function is called, an address is passed as an actual argument.

```
void swap(int *p, int *q){
  int temp;
  temp = *p;
  *p = *q;
  *q = temp;
}
```

### Scope rules

```
int a = 1;
{
  int a = 7;
  printf("%d\n", a); // 7 is printed
}
```

### Storage classes

- `auto, extern, register, static`
- auto
  - Variables declared within function bodies are by default automatic.
- extern
  - The keyword extern means "Look for it elsewhere, either in this file or in some other."
  - One method of transmitting information across block is and functions is to use external variables.
  - When a variable is declared outside a function, storage is permanently assigned to it, and its storage class is extern.
  - external variables that are not explicitly initialized by the programmer are initialized to zero by the system.
  - but their values cannot be destroyed.
- register
  - The storage class register can be used to try to improve execution speed. it is semantically equivalent to automatic.
  - The storage class register tells the compiler that the associated variables should be stored in high-speed memory registers, provided it is physically and semantically possible.
  - default is auto whenever the compiler cannot allocate an appropriate physical register.
  ```
  {
    register int i; // register i; // default int
    ...  
  } // block exit will free the register
  ```
- static
  - To allow a local variable to retain its previous value when the block is reentered.
  - static variables that are not explicitly initialized by the programmer are initialized to zero by the system.
  - in connection with external declarations
    - `static seed` // external, but private to this file
    - Can be used for functions and prototypes

### The type Qualifiers const and volatile

- `static const int k = 3;`
  - k is a constant int with static storage class
```
// compiler is happy
const int a = 7;
const int *p = &a;

int a;
int * const p = &a; // p is a constant pointer to int, and its initial value is the address of a

```
- `extern const volatile int real_time_clock;`
  - Look for it else where, either in this file or in some other file

- `char* p;` which is equivalent to char p;

### Relationship between Arrays and Pointers

```
int a[N], *p;

sum = 0;
for (p = a; p < &a[N]; ++p)
  sum += *p;

sum = 0;
for (i = 0; i < N; ++i)
  sum += *(a + i);

p = a;
sum = 0;
for (i = 0; i < N; ++i)
  sum += p[i];

// as part of the header of a function definition, the declaration
// int a[]; is equivalant to int *a;
```

### Dynamic Memory Allocation

- `void *calloc(size_t, size_t);`
  - `a = calloc(n, sizeof(int));`
- `void *malloc(size_t);` Programmers prefer
  - `a = malloc(n*sizeof(int));` get space for n ints
- `void free(void *ptr);`


### The End-of-String Sentinel \0
- end-of-string sentinel \0

### Passing Arguments to main
- `int main(int argc, char *argv[]);`

### strcat
- `char *strcat(char *s1, const char *s2)/`

### strlen
- `unsigned strlen(const char *s);`

### strcpy
- `char *strcpy(char *s1, const char *s2)/`

### strcmp

##### compare two string
- `int strcmp ( const char * str1, const char * str2 );`
  - `< 0` : the first character that does not match has a lower value in ptr1 than in ptr2
  - `0` : the contents of both strings are equal
  - `> 0` : the first character that does not match has a greater value in ptr1 than in ptr2

```
#include <stdio.h>
#include <string.h>

int main ()
{
  char key[] = "apple";
  char buffer[80];
  do {
     printf ("Guess my favorite fruit? ");
     fflush (stdout);
     scanf ("%79s",buffer);
  } while (strcmp (key,buffer) != 0);
  puts ("Correct answer!");
  return 0;
}
```

### Recursive

- A function is said to be recursive if it calls itself, either directly or indirectly. Recursion is an advanced form of flow of control.
- Recursion typically consists of a base case or cases and a general case. It is important to make sure that function terminates.

```
void count_down(int n)
{
  if (n) {
    printf("%d ! ", n);
    count_down(n-1);
  } else {
    printf("\nEND\n");
  }
}
```

### Structure

```
struct card {
  int pips;
}
// structure_variable.member_name
// pointer_to_structure -> member_name
// (*pointer_to_structure).member_name
```

### linked list
```
#include <stdio.h>

typedef char DATA;

struct linked_list {
  DATA d;
  struct inked_list *next;
};

typedef struct linked_list ELEMENT;
typedef ELEMENT * LINK;

LINK string_to_list(char s[]) {
  LINK head;
  if (s[0] == '\0') {
    return NULL;
  } else {
    head = malloc(sizeof(ELEMENT));
    head->d = s[0];
    head->next = string_to_list(s+1);
    return head;
  }
}

int count(LINK head) {
  if (head == NULL) {
    return 0;
  } else {
    return (1 + count(head->next));
  }
}

LINK lookup(DATA c, LINK head) {
  if (head == NULL) {
    return NULL;
  } else if (c == head->d) {
    return head;
  } else {
    return (lookup(c, head->next));
  }
}

void insert(LINK p1, LINK p2, LINK q) {
  p1->next = q;
  q->next = p2;
}

void delete_list(LINK head) {
  if(head != NULL) {
    delete_list(head->next);
    free(head);
  }
}

```
