---
layout: post
title:  "Standard ML"
date:   2018-03-10 22:00:00 +0900
tag: [sml]
---

---

> Computation in ML consists of evaluation of expressions. Each expression
has three important characteristics:

- It may or may not have a `type`.
- It may or may not have a `value`.
- It may or may not engender an `effect`.

---

> What is a type? What types are there? Generally speaking, a type is defined
by specifying three things:

- a `name` for the type,
- the `values` of the type, and
- the `operations` that may be performed on values of the type.

---

## The semantics
## Read-eval-print-loop (REPL)
## Pairs, Lists, Local Bindings, Benefit of No Mutation
## Records, Datatypes, Case Expressions and more


---


### The semantics
> **syntax** : 문법, 프로그래밍 언어의 정의들의 집합. 형태, 구조에 관한것들.
> Syntax is just how you write something
> syntax error: `20 ) 20`, `I you ...`

-

> **semantics** : 의미, 진정의미하는 것, 의미에 대한 것들.
> Semantics is what that something means
> semantic error : `20 + 'a'` `I are ...`
> > **type-checking** : 프로그램 시작 전(before program runs)
> > **evaluation** : 프로그램이 실행될 때(as program runs)

---
### variable binding
> 변수에 값을 대입 하는것, 변수의 이름과 그 값 사이의 관계
> `val x = e;`
> **syntax**
> > keyword: `val`, `=`
> > variable `x`
> > expression `e`

---

### A program
- A program is a sequence of bindings
- **Type-check** each binding in order using the static environment produced by the previous bindings
- **Evaluate** each binding in order using the dynamic environment produced by the previous bindings

---

### Expressions
- objects 와 operaters(or operands) 로 구성된다. 값으로 해석될 수 있다.
- Every kind of expression has
	- Syntax
	- Type-checking rules (type을 생성하거나 fail)
	- Evaluation rules (type-checking이 success 일때만, 값을 생성하거나, exception or infinite-loop)
---

### Variables
- **Syntax**:
	- sequence of letters, digits, `_`, not starting with digit
- **Type-checking**:
	- Look up type in current static environment (컴파일 할때)
	– If not there fail
- **Evaluation**:
	- Look up value in current dynamic environment (실행 될때)
---

### Values
- All values are expressions
- Not all expressions are values
- A value “evaluates to itself” in “zero steps”
```
– 34, 17, 42 have type int
– true, false have type bool – () has type unit
```

---

### Conditional Expression

```
if x then e1 else e2

e1 < e2
e2 > e1
```
---

### Functions, Recursion
> building block

```
(* Note: correct only if y>=0 *)
fun pow (x:int, y:int) =
    if y=0
    then 1
    else x * pow(x,y-1)
```
---

### Function bindings
- Syntax:
```
fun x0 (x1:t1, ... , xn:tn) = e
```
- Evaluation: A function is a value!
- Type-checking: `x0 :(t1 * ... * tn) -> t`

---
### Function Calls
- Syntax: `e0 (e1,...,en)`
- Type-checking: ...
- Evaluation: ...

---
### Functions as Parameters
```
fun apply_f(f:int*int -> int, x:int, y:int) =
```

---
### Tuples and Lists
- Tuples: fixed “number of pieces” that may have different types
– Lists: any “number of pieces” that all have the same type

---

### Pairs(2-tuples)
- Syntax : `(e1, e2)`
- Evaluation:
- Type-checking:
- Access: `#1 e`, `#2 e`
- Nesting: `val x1 = (7,(true,9)) (* int * (bool*int) *)`

---

### Lists
- empty list:  `[]`
- general: `[e1, e2,...,en]`
- `e1::e2`
- Access
	- `null e`
	- `hd e`
	- `tl e`
- `fun append (xs : int list, ys : int list) =`
- `fun firsts (xs : (int*int) list) =` // list of pairs

---

### Type-checking list operations
- any type t, `'a list`
- `null : 'a list -> bool`
- `hd :'alist->'a`
- `tl : 'a list -> 'a list`
- **Functions over lists are usually recursive**

---


**not having mutation**
- No need for you to keep track of sharing/aliasing, which Java programmers must obsess about

---

### Let-expressions
- Syntax: `let b1 b2 ... bn in e end`
- Type-checking: bi 는 binding 이고 e는 expressions 이다.
- Evaluation: 전체 evaluation 결과는 e를 evaluation 한것
- **scope** 이 중요함.
- nested function 들을 만들 수 있다.

---

### Options
- `t option` is a type for any type `t`
- `NONE` 의 타입은 `'a option`
- `SOMEe ` 의 타입은 `e`가 `t` 라는 타입일 때 `'t option` 이다.
- **Accessing:**
	- `isSome` has type `'a option -> bool`
	- `valOf` has type `'a option -> 'a` (exception if given `NONE`)
